The remainder of this lesson will focus on probabilistic path planning.
Recall the exploratory rover introduced at the start of the previous lesson.
It's task was to find a path from
its drop-off location to the goal location that would be safe for humans to follow.
The terrain contains a lot of different hazards.
The operator of the rover is willing to take whatever risk is necessary,
but would naturally want to minimize it as much as possible.
The algorithms that you have learned thus far are unable to adequately model the risk.
For instance, a combinatorial path planning algorithm
would have no difficulty finding this path to the goal location.
The path may be the best by all other means,
but due to the uncertainty of the rover motion,
there is a chance that the rover will meet its demise along this path.
It is possible to inflate the size of
the rover to ensure that there is enough room to maneuver.
But as you have seen,
the algorithm will no longer be complete.
Another idea is to give negative rewards to dangerous areas of
the map so that the search algorithm is more likely to select alternate paths.
Similar to what you did in reinforcement learning,
this is a step in the right direction,
and would cause the rover to avoid dangerous areas.
But it does not actually considered the uncertainty of the rover motion.
What we'd really like is to model the uncertainty
by considering a non-deterministic transition model.
For instance, the following one.
Since path execution is uncertain,
an algorithm that takes the uncertainty into account
explicitly is more likely to produce realistic paths.
So, where does that leave us?
We're back to Markov decision processes.
In the remainder of this lesson,
you will learn probabilistic path planning using
Markov decision processes and add one additional algorithm to your repertoire.